Welcome everyone see the solutions for interview questions 5 and the product design and metrics category.
So this is actually a real question being asked at Facebook to test your business sense and this were
a car company produces all the cars for a country.
We have two different types of cars X and Y.
And what's important to note here is that half the population drives corrects and the other half drives
car Y.
So that's an important note to take is that they're basically perfectly split.
Do we have these two potential technologies and one of them increases 50 mpg to 75 mpg for Car X.
The other one increases car Y from 10 mpg to 11 miles per gallon.
And we're being asked which technology should be implemented to save the most gasoline for the country.
So this is actually a really interesting problem because unlike most the other general product analysis
questions we just discussed this one actually has a correct answer.
So let's go ahead and work through it mathematically.
So first off let's go ahead and assume that the average commute distance for a car is the.
So no matter what type of car you're driving.
On average the average person is driving the number of miles.
So then if we wanted to find the total amount of gasoline used what we could do is say the total amount
of gas used is equal to the average distance divided by miles per gallon.
So if you divide those units out you end up getting total gas used.
So now that we have this fraction metric for total gas use Let's go ahead and compare what each policy
would do for the total amount of gas used and we'll try to find this in terms of the change in the amount
of gas used.
So here we have both policies A and B.
And we're going to calculate the total gas used change.
So we're going to take the original total gas used and then subtract the new gas used.
So we have the Divide by 50.
That's the original miles per gallon for that first car.
Subtract the new policy change of the over seventy five.
And that means the total gas used change is going to be over 150.
If we implement policy be the total gas change there is going to be the divided by 110.
So again we're just calculating the total gas used and the change in it for each policy.
And that is what happens here we have done over 150 for Policy A which is going to be always a smaller
number than over 110 because the denominator is larger.
And we know these here are equal to each other because we define that as being the average commute distance
for a car.
So since we know that for any average commute distance d over 150 will always be smaller than D over
110.
Then we know that policy be d over 110 is going to result in the biggest gas change or savings.
So that actually means Policy B is the correct choice.
Again more to test your mathematical sense in business and metrics because it's very easy to intuitively
think oh well 50 to 75 that's a larger jump.
So that will be actually be better.
But if you calculate this out mathematically and you can even plug in some numbers here for average
commute distance of the and you also see the results numerically in that fashion.
But on any case regardless of how much the commute distances the over 150 is always going to be a smaller
number than the over 110.
So policy results in the biggest gas change or savings.
OK thanks everyone.
I'll see you at the next lecture.